all right so um I'm here to talk to you
about something boring and
horrible uh that every single founder
hates um how to pitch your
company um we just got through demo day
and helping over 200 companies pitch
investors and pitching investors is
basically the most painful thing that
companies do
what I find fun is that any founder you
talk to can remember every single
investor who said no to
them and they hold a special kind of I
don't want to use the word hatred but
they hold a special something for those
people um and they desire to prove them
wrong and so what I wanted to do today
is give you all the tips that we give YC
companies to be much more successful at
fundraising when you are pre-product
Market fit and that's really important
this is not for raising series A's I
assume most of you here pre-product
Market fit and so what I hope to do is
get you to unlearn some of the
fundraising advice that you've learned
so far which is probably wrong that's my
goal so number
one You Stand Out by being concise and
easy to
understand uh I I've
done I think it's over 2,000 YC
interviews and one of the things that
Founders don't understand is that if I
don't know what your company does I
can't fund
you the number one barrier to not
knowing what your company does is
you not me not the world that's
oppressing you not your users not your
advisors it's literally you a lot of
people think that they need to bring a
bunch of energy and Pizzazz and Sizzle
and shark tankiness to a pitch you
don't you actually Stand Out by being
concise and easy to
understand and so a lot of what I'm
going to do today is going to not sound
fancy because it isn't it just
works there's a talk over there that
tells you about all the fancy things
that don't work so if you want that talk
you can I'm just joking all
right so these are the common elements
of a pitch these are the things that you
need to be able to talk
about what do you do what does your
company do who's on your team what's
your traction what do you know that
everyone else doesn't or would disagree
with you about your unique insights
what's your Market size and what are you
asking for this is a pitch that's
it so let's start with what do you
do you need to be able to say what your
company does in two sentences and you
need to be able to give a specific
example so um let's use Airbnb as an
example right so
Airbnb lets any home or apartment owner
rent out
their apartment
online sentence
one they collect the payment online and
take a let's call it 15% fee for every
booking that's sentence two that's
it a lot of the magic comes in the
example and I'll give you a real world
example imagine that you're a waiter who
lives in Washington
DC and and it's 2009 and the Obama
inauguration is happening in town and
every hotel room is
booked you can make two three
$4,000 by renting your apartment
out and that's the amount of money you
need to pay your rent for the next two
or three months all you have to do is
take some photos of your place and put a
listing on Airbnb and Airbnb will handle
the payments we get you a great guest
you give them a great experience and you
got your rent
paid what's interesting about that
example is it's
specific you can imagine a waiter you
can imagine them being in DC I don't
know how old you all are but you
probably remember the Obama inauguration
or the fact that Obama was President you
can imagine the hotel rooms being sold
out and you can imagine somebody being
able to rent their place out for a lot
of money and pay their rent for a lot of
months that is a great
example what I didn't do was I didn't
give a vague example so let's talk about
where people go wrong
one they pitch something or they explain
what they do in a way a customer would
understand but an investor would not for
most of you investors are not your
users you use jargon with your users you
assume a lot of common experience with
your users if your investor is not your
user they don't have that experience you
have to use Simple language that they
will understand not complicated language
that makes you sound smart so one thing
we tell YC companies is you need two
different answers to what do you do one
that you give investors and another one
you give customers and they're different
the words on the front page of your
website are for customers if you're
using that for investors more often than
not you're doing it
wrong number two
they try to be 100%
accurate there were a lot of details I
left out of Airbnb in that two- sentence
description with the example but it was
clear and easy to
understand your goals should be 80%
accurate 100% clear not 100% accurate
50%
clear I talked about an example that's
too
general what I could have said about
Airbnb is for example if you are in a
place that has a big event
and you need to pay your rent you can
rent your place out and then you can pay
your
rent same basic
story none of the little facts that make
it stick in your memory and make you
understand next up in their example they
don't illustrate the problem and
solution right I talked about that
waiter inherent in that is that waiter
doesn't make very much money and they
need to pay their rent and Herb helps
them pay their rent so instead of having
a complicated problem solution slide I
just told you what the problem and the
solution was right up
front and then last but not least and
this is one that I think a lot of
Founders screw up you do not want to
leave the first slide of your
presentation without investors knowing
what you
do so many Founders have the first SL of
the presentation with a nice logo on it
and they say like and then they move on
and investors are sitting there saying I
have no [__] idea what this company
does and now I'm looking at graphs and
charts and [__] and I I don't have no
idea what's going on don't do
that one thing you can actually do is
just ask hey so now that I've explained
what we do do you understand or would
another example be
helpful you can do that it's really
simple next your
team um people screw up the team slide
all the time the purpose of team is
really just to talk about who's on your
team what do they do what Their
impressive accomplishments and
credentials are and if
possible how they've personally
experienced the problem if we go back to
Airbnb they could literally talk about
how they were starving startup Founders
who couldn't pay their rent and the
first time they did this they set up a
website for design conference hosted
three guests so they could pay their
rent
if you can weave how you've experienced
the problem into the team slide suddenly
I think of you as an
expert now what do people screw up no
titles I don't know what the roles are I
don't know who the CEO is if I'm a real
stage investor I'm trusting the CEO with
money if I don't know who they are who
am I
trusting number two who writes
code number three telling telling long
Stories the team side is not the
opportunity to tell your life story
here's a hint there is no opportunity in
your pitch to tell your life story
unless the investor asks explicitly for
your life story and you should double
confirm they want to hear your life
story no life
stories and then the one I always love
missing specific accomplishments there's
one company in this badge that literally
worked on the Mars
rover um the founder was like worked at
JPL and like build software to make the
Mars rover project actually
happen didn't talk about
it I didn't even know when we accepted
him I'm in office hours with him a month
two months into the BR and I'm like what
was what' you do at GPL and he's like oh
have you heard of the Mars rover I'm
like yeah I'm not a [__] idiot and
and he's like yeah I I did did and I'm
like can we talk about that
please if you've done something cool say
it without the Li story just say that
you did the software for the Mars rover
it'll be
impressive next
traction everyone's got this traction
concept a little mixed
up for traction you do a clear
explanation of what you've accomplished
since you started working on your
company and only use a graph if the
graph is up to the
right what people screw up with traction
all the time is that you can have
traction if you're pre-launch you can
have traction if you don't have a great
graph all traction is communicating is
what you've done since you've started
and why that's
impressive if you've built an IOS app
and it's now in test flight in the hands
of 100 users in one month that's
impressive even if they're not using it
a ton even if you're not launched
publicly on the flip side if you're
building an IOS app and it's been 2
years and it's in test flight with 100
users that's not
impressive so taking too much time and
not getting anything done is the
opposite here what investors are looking
for is momentum they're looking do you
get things done
quickly they're not necessarily looking
for do you have a ton of Revenue or a
ton of users if they're investing in an
early stage company they know that you
might not have those things and they'll
still invest if you communicate you get
things done quickly
and the only way you communicate you get
things done quickly is if your traction
slide includes how much time you've been
spending right the biggest mistake YC
Founders make here is they say this list
of things and they didn't tell me do
they do it in a month or four months or
a year or two years without the time I'm
not
impressed next they put fake
work advisor surveys like fake work work
that's not
really furthering their company and then
last and here's a tricky
one you don't need a traction slide if
you don't have any
traction putting a bad traction slide is
worse than having no traction slide at
all if this is weak two of your startup
you probably don't have any [__]
traction putting a bunch of fake stuff
on that slide just makes you look like
an idiot just don't include it they're
obviously funding the
team just talking about the
team so fake is
worthless next unique insights what are
the non-obvious things you've learned
about the problem the customer or the
potential
solution this I think is the most
intellectually interesting
part of a pitch but you only get the
right to do this if I know what your
company
does and if I'm impressed with your
team a lot a lot of Founders try to skip
to this point and if I don't know what
your company does I can't tell whether
your insight's good or
not
so when you think about unique insights
I love using Airbnb as an
example Airbnb had one that was very
unique all of the other products that
came before it that let people do time
share and list their spaces online
didn't process
payments and as a result processing
payments in a low trust environment
where you have never met the host and
the host has never met you is
scary and it prevents hosts from hosting
and it prevents guests from
booking whereas if a third party stands
in the middle and processes
payments both parties can trust that
third party more than they trust each
other and it facilitates the marketplace
working that's an important unique
Insight but if if I had said that [__]
and not mentioned what Airbnb does you'd
have no idea what I was talking
about common mistakes your insight's not
unique if you were to survey 50% of the
people in this room or greater would
agree with the thing that you're saying
when you say it it's not
unique number two not being specific
with your examples this is another place
where vager comes in like you can tell a
story here about your unique Insight you
can tell a story about how you learned
it
if Brian was up here he would talk about
he learned this Insight when he went to
South by
Southwest on his platform when it didn't
do payments and forgot to bring money
and had a super awkward experience with
his host who thought he was trying to
rip them
off right bam that's a real good
learning and then last but not least not
using numbers and facts especially if
you're talking about unique insights
you've learned from your users quote
numbers quote facts it makes it feel
more real it makes it
real next up Market size everyone screws
this up um everyone thinks that the
number is what's important how big the
market is is most important the reality
is how you calculate the number is
what's
important as an investor I don't know
how many potential users you might be
able to get you have to educate me about
that you should do that research I don't
know how much you're going to charge the
users and I I don't know why you're
going to charge them that much money I
don't know if there are other products
that they're buying that cost this much
money I don't know how much value you're
creating for them showing me this
Bottoms Up calculation of how many users
and how much you can charge them and why
teaches me a
lot if you teach me in a pitch I think
of you as an expert and I want to fund
experts so how do people screw up they
quote some report JP Morgan said that
the online e-commerce Market is 120
trillion and growing 20% it's like who
the [__]
cares you're not teaching me anything
number two not showing the
math show the math there are this number
of users we charge them this much show
me the math and then three not talking
about comparable products so if we're
going to replace
figma and your pricing competitive with
figma tell me that tell me figma charges
this much and we're going to charge this
much hell tell me you're going to charge
more because you're going to create more
value than figma but throw in a
comparative so I understand why that
price is that
price all
right next up is the
ask um this is I think the really
interesting one um and I can kind of
share some personal stories about
this in your pitch you actually have to
ask for
money you would be be shocked at how
many pitches people do and they don't
ask for
money um I think that it's on the order
of
70% where the pitch is done the founder
asks if there are any questions the
investor says no the meeting ends no
money was ever asked
for now I want to put you into the
mindset of an investor for a second I've
been an angel investor for I don't know
seven years
um there are three mindsets I have when
I'm listening to a pitch mindset one is
I will never fund this
company most common will never fund this
company mindset two is I will definitely
fund this company least
common extremely rare most Angel
Investors are rich like they don't
really understand what you're doing why
your customer needs it they just met you
least common I'm excited to find this
company category three that people don't
talk
about if they ask me it will be
uncomfortable for me to say no so I will
write them a
check I'll tell you that in my
experience this is up to 10% of the
time I am hoping the founder doesn't ask
me for
money because I largely suspect that
instead of saying no I'll say yes
because the pain of saying no is way
worse than writing a $25,000
check how [__] is
that and the only way you tap into that
is you ask you got to ask put them on
the
fire and this is especially true for
Angels this is especially true for
Angels got to
ask so what are the common errors this
is pretty simple not asking right not
talking about social proof here are the
people who've invested here's how much
we
raised talking about who you will hire
on the ask slide nobody cares who you
will hire they care what you're going to
do with the money and more specifically
what Revenue Milestones you're going to
hit or what usage Milestones you're
going to hit with the
money hiring is a means to an end the
end is revenue and usage of your product
so your ass slide needs to be we're
raising this much money we want to
accomplish this Milestone within the
next 18 months or 24 months or whatever
it
is um I think what's interesting is that
if you don't have that
goal of where you want to be 18 24
months from now you're not going to be
good at this ask slide so make the
[__]
goal and make it something that people
would be excited
by and then ask for money all
right
so we've gone through the individual
elements here the mistakes that people
make
overall they don't order their points
from most to least impressive the format
that I gave you you can mess around with
after what do you
do which should be at the beginning
that's pretty [__] clear and the ask
which should be at the end that's pretty
clear the elements in the middle need to
be ordered by which is most
impressive if you've got a ton of
traction great traction should come
right after your team slide I'm sorry
right after your what you do slide
you've got an amazing team great team
should come right after I think what a
lot of people screw up with these decks
is they think there's some super
standard format they can't leave and
they don't realize that like there is
flexibility to make your most important
points
early a lot of people think that an
investor is going to sit down for a
30-minute meeting and give them 30
minutes of their time it's not true
especially on Zoom it's very not true
you earn every two minutes of that
meeting if the last two minutes sucked
that investor is checking their
email so don't leave the good stuff till
late that's dumb
after I know what you
do put the best stuff you have right
afterwards earn that next two minutes
earn that next two minutes earn that
next two
minutes um next is treating your pitch
like you're delivering a book report in
front of a
class your pitch should be nothing like
what we're doing here right now it
shouldn't be you are delivering and they
are waiting and
listening
ideally your pitch should be a way that
you can draw them into
conversation now doing this is hard like
this is actually a very hard skill it's
a lot easier just to deliver the pitch
and then ask for the grade but what most
people don't realize about Investors is
that you're not really convincing an
investor to invest they're convincing
themselves to
invest the more they can
talk the more they can talk themselves
into giving you money and if any of you
have done sales you know that like a
common sales coaching technique is to
look at a call recording and figure out
how much time was the customer talking
versus salesperson talking if the
customer is talking 50% or more of the
time it's much more likely that they're
going to
buy if the investor is talking 50% more
of the or the time it's much more likely
they're going to buy so one of the best
techniques is anytime you see a peak of
interest in any part of your
presentation
run with it oh you looked interested in
that did you have a common experience oh
I see you fund that X Y and Z I think
they had to deal with something
similar like get them
talking if the investors is like oh you
know I'm really interested in this D
thing and it's the third or fourth slide
in your deck just skip to that [__]
slide don't say oh let's wait like I'm
going to get to that don't get me out of
my order like it's like [__] you like
get them talking
because the more that they're
contributing ideas the more that they're
making their own Connections in their
head about why this thing's going to
work the more they're going to convince
themselves to give you
money so I can't tell you enough this
isn't a book report it's not a
paper right what's weird is that you
don't really have this experience with
any teachers in your life it's not
really taught in educational
environment get them talking um next not
paying attention to the investor
um a lot of pitches nowadays are on Zoom
you got a closeup of that person's face
and if you actually look at it you can
tell whether they are interested in what
you're saying or
not if you look I'm a really crappy
poker player but I tried this once
playing poker like spending most of the
time looking at the faces of the people
around the poker table and not like
looking at the hand that I was about to
lose money on and I learned a lot
investors have a ton of tells they're
not trained they're not trained poker
players who like hide their TOS put
sunglasses on and like headphones and
[__] right their face is an open book
you can tell whether they're interested
or not if you're
looking and last but not least is
distracting slides I hope you noticed
these slides are the most boring basic
[__] design slides in the universe
right and there's a reason I want you to
look at me and not look at the cool
background image on the [__]
slide if your slides are visually
interesting that means I'm not focused
on you the person I want to give money
to or not I'm focused on some designer's
work if you need a designer to build a
slide deck you're doing it
wrong and here's an even deeper most
more important Point your designer has
no idea what the most interesting and
important points of your pitch are so if
you hand them your pitch to design they
will emphasize the wrong things and it's
not their fault it's your business you
understand the most important things not
someone else so a designer is going to
try to create something visually
interesting counterintuitively you want
something visually
boring visually boring remember clear
and concise not sexy and Sizzle so no
distracting
slides all right so I'm GNA try to do
this live let me see if I can pitch
YC I'm G be tricky all right so what do
we do we're a startup
accelerator we fund early stage startups
with $500,000 standard
deal and we've invested in some of the
best technology startups in the last 18
years including stripe Airbnb Dropbox
coinbase instacart door Dash
Etc that's two sentences
example um when I did
YC I started a company called twitch it
was called Justin TV at the
time we were 23 and 22 years
old we filled out an application
online we got an interview and after a
10-minute interview we were funded we
participated in a 3-month program with
other Founders where we we encouraged to
build and launch our product quickly at
the end of that process we raised money
at demo
day and within 3 months we had money we
had a new friend group that encouraged
us and we had reached a new top speed of
productivity and those are the things
that YC provided us that's the example
really
simple
traction uh what's a good traction staff
for YC YC has funded somewhere around 75
companies that generate over $100
million in
Revenue um that's pretty good TR slide
uh
team right now as group partners of YC
are people who have started funded hired
fired and done everything that you are
going to do as a startup founder and
they've also participated in YC so not
only the best to give you advice about
your startup they're the best to give
you advice on how to get the most out of
YC most investors have never been in
your shoes every YC partner has
been unique insights there are three
unique insights for YC they're really
basic one filling that application and
not needing warm introduction gives us
access to better deal flow than any
other investor in the
world two funding people in a batch
means that batch supports one another
and helps one another
and gives each other advantages that
competition don't have and three running
a demo Day means that you're running a
fundraising auction and everyone knows
you're trying to get the highest price
for any product good or service you want
to run an auction so YC companies tend
to raise at a higher valuation and
dilute less than people don't do YC
those are three unique insights Market
size since YC started they're about 40
plus
Tech IPOs VC backed per year generate
about $10 billion in returns per
year uh and
ask
apply that's the YC
pitch not much
Sizzle clear
concise that's the
game